README.rst, before:

This is pure-python implementation of the ADB client.

You can use it to communicate with adb server (not the adb daemon on the device/emulator).

When you use `adb` command

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Swind/pure-python-adb/master/docs/adb_cli.png

Now you can use `pure-python-adb` to connect to adb server as adb command line

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Swind/pure-python-adb/master/docs/adb_pure_python_adb.png

This package supports most of the adb command line tool's functionality.

1. adb devices
2. adb shell
3. adb forward
4. adb pull/push
5. adb install/uninstall

Requirements
============

Python 2.7+ / Python 3.6+

Installation
============

.. code-block:: console

    $pip install -U pure-python-adb

Examples
========

Connect to adb server and get the version
-----------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from adb.client import Client as AdbClient
    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    print(client.version())

    >>> 39

Connect to a device
-------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from adb.client import Client as AdbClient
    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")


List all devices ( adb devices ) and install/uninstall an APK on all devices
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from adb.client import Client as AdbClient

    apk_path = "example.apk"

    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    devices = client.devices()

    for device in devices:
        device.install(apk_path)

    # Check apk is installed
    for device in devices:
        print(device.is_installed("example.package"))

    # Uninstall
    for device in devices:
        device.uninstall("example.package)

adb shell
---------

.. code-block:: python

    from adb.client import Client as AdbClient
    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")
    device.shell("echo hello world !")

.. code-block:: python

    def dump_logcat(connection):
        while True:
            data = connection.read(1024)
            if not data:
                break
            print(data.decode('utf-8'))

        connection.close()

    from adb.client import Client as AdbClient
    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")
    device.shell("logcat", handler=dump_logcat)

read logcat line by line

.. code-block:: python

    from adb.client import Client

    def dump_logcat_by_line(connect):
        file_obj = connect.socket.makefile()
        for index in range(0, 10):
            print("Line {}: {}".format(index, file_obj.readline().strip()))

    file_obj.close()
    connect.close()

    client = Client()
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")
    device.shell("logcat", handler=dump_logcat_by_line)

Screenshot
----------

.. code-block:: python

    from adb.client import Client as AdbClient
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")
    result = device.screencap()
    with open("screen.png", "wb") as fp:
        fp.write(result)

Push
----

.. code-block:: python

    from adb.client import Client as AdbClient
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")

    device.push("example.apk", "/sdcard/example.apk")

Pull
----

.. code-block:: python

    from adb.client import Client as AdbClient
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")

    device.shell("screencap -p /sdcard/screen.png")
    device.pull("/sdcard/screen.png", "screen.png")

How to run test cases
======================

Prepare
--------

1. Install Docker

2. Install Docker Compose

.. code-block:: console

    pip install docker-compose

3. Modify `test/conftest.py`

Change the value of `adb_host` to the "emulator"

.. code-block:: python

    adb_host="emulator"

4. Run testcases

.. code-block:: console

    docker-compose up

Result

.. code-block:: console

    Starting purepythonadb_emulator_1 ... done
    Recreating purepythonadb_python_environment_1 ... done
    Attaching to purepythonadb_emulator_1, purepythonadb_python_environment_1
    emulator_1            | + echo n
    emulator_1            | + /home/user/android-sdk-linux/tools/bin/avdmanager create avd -k system-images;android-25;google_apis;x86 -n Docker -b x86 -g google_apis --device 8 --force
    Parsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/emulator/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/patcher/v4/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/platform-tools/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/platforms/android-25/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/system-images/android-25/google_apis/x86/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/tools/package.xml+ echo hw.keyboard = true
    emulator_1            | + adb start-server
    emulator_1            | * daemon not running; starting now at tcp:5037
    python_environment_1  | ============================= test session starts ==============================
    python_environment_1  | platform linux -- Python 3.6.1, pytest-3.6.3, py-1.5.4, pluggy-0.6.0
    python_environment_1  | rootdir: /code, inifile:
    python_environment_1  | collected 27 items
    python_environment_1  |
    emulator_1            | * daemon started successfully
    emulator_1            | + exec /usr/bin/supervisord
    emulator_1            | /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/supervisor/options.py:298: UserWarning: Supervisord is running as root and it is searching for its configuration file in default locations (including its current working directory); you probably want to specify a "-c" argument specifying an absolute path to a configuration file for improved security.
    emulator_1            |   'Supervisord is running as root and it is searching '
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,560 CRIT Supervisor running as root (no user in config file)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,560 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisor/conf.d/supervisord.conf" during parsing
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,570 INFO RPC interface 'supervisor' initialized
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,570 CRIT Server 'unix_http_server' running without any HTTP authentication checking
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,570 INFO supervisord started with pid 1
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,573 INFO spawned: 'socat-5554' with pid 74
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,574 INFO spawned: 'socat-5555' with pid 75
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,576 INFO spawned: 'socat-5037' with pid 76
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,578 INFO spawned: 'novnc' with pid 77
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,579 INFO spawned: 'socat-9008' with pid 78
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,582 INFO spawned: 'emulator' with pid 80
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,607 INFO success: socat-5554 entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,607 INFO success: socat-5555 entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,607 INFO success: socat-5037 entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,607 INFO success: novnc entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,608 INFO success: socat-9008 entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,608 INFO success: emulator entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    python_environment_1  | test/test_device.py ..............                                       [ 51%]
    python_environment_1  | test/test_host.py ..                                                     [ 59%]
    python_environment_1  | test/test_host_serial.py ........                                        [ 88%]
    python_environment_1  | test/test_plugins.py ...                                                 [100%]
    python_environment_1  |
    python_environment_1  | ------------------ generated xml file: /code/test_result.xml -------------------
    python_environment_1  | ========================= 27 passed in 119.15 seconds ==========================
    purepythonadb_python_environment_1 exited with code 0
    Aborting on container exit...
    Stopping purepythonadb_emulator_1 ... done

More Information
=================

A pure Node.js client for the Android Debug Bridge
---------------------------------------------------

adbkit_

ADB documents
--------------

- protocol_
- services_
- sync_

.. _adbkit: https://github.com/openstf/stf
.. _protocol: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/core/+/master/adb/protocol.txt
.. _services: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/core/+/master/adb/SERVICES.TXT
.. _sync: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/core/+/master/adb/SYNC.TXT

Commit message:

Fixes #21: Rename the package name from "adb" to "ppadb" Fixes #23: Support push dir to device Fixes #25: Don't call logging.basicConfig() in the module

README.rst, after:

This is pure-python implementation of the ADB client.

You can use it to communicate with adb server (not the adb daemon on the device/emulator).

When you use `adb` command

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Swind/pure-python-adb/master/docs/adb_cli.png

Now you can use `pure-python-adb` to connect to adb server as adb command line

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Swind/pure-python-adb/master/docs/adb_pure_python_adb.png

This package supports most of the adb command line tool's functionality.

1. adb devices
2. adb shell
3. adb forward
4. adb pull/push
5. adb install/uninstall

Requirements
============

Python 2.7+ / Python 3.6+

Installation
============

.. code-block:: console

    $pip install -U pure-python-adb

Examples
========

Connect to adb server and get the version
-----------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from ppadb.client import Client as AdbClient
    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    print(client.version())

    >>> 39

Connect to a device
-------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from ppadb.client import Client as AdbClient
    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")


List all devices ( adb devices ) and install/uninstall an APK on all devices
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

.. code-block:: python

    from ppadb.client import Client as AdbClient

    apk_path = "example.apk"

    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    devices = client.devices()

    for device in devices:
        device.install(apk_path)

    # Check apk is installed
    for device in devices:
        print(device.is_installed("example.package"))

    # Uninstall
    for device in devices:
        device.uninstall("example.package)

adb shell
---------

.. code-block:: python

    from ppadb.client import Client as AdbClient
    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")
    device.shell("echo hello world !")

.. code-block:: python

    def dump_logcat(connection):
        while True:
            data = connection.read(1024)
            if not data:
                break
            print(data.decode('utf-8'))

        connection.close()

    from ppadb.client import Client as AdbClient
    # Default is "127.0.0.1" and 5037
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")
    device.shell("logcat", handler=dump_logcat)

read logcat line by line

.. code-block:: python

    from ppadb.client import Client

    def dump_logcat_by_line(connect):
        file_obj = connect.socket.makefile()
        for index in range(0, 10):
            print("Line {}: {}".format(index, file_obj.readline().strip()))

    file_obj.close()
    connect.close()

    client = Client()
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")
    device.shell("logcat", handler=dump_logcat_by_line)

Screenshot
----------

.. code-block:: python

    from ppadb.client import Client as AdbClient
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")
    result = device.screencap()
    with open("screen.png", "wb") as fp:
        fp.write(result)

Push file or folder
----

.. code-block:: python

    from ppadb.client import Client as AdbClient
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")

    device.push("example.apk", "/sdcard/example.apk")

Pull
----

.. code-block:: python

    from ppadb.client import Client as AdbClient
    client = AdbClient(host="127.0.0.1", port=5037)
    device = client.device("emulator-5554")

    device.shell("screencap -p /sdcard/screen.png")
    device.pull("/sdcard/screen.png", "screen.png")


Enable debug logger
--------------------

.. code-block:: python

    logging.getLogger("ppadb").setLevel(logging.DEBUG)


How to run test cases
======================

Prepare
--------

1. Install Docker

2. Install Docker Compose

.. code-block:: console

    pip install docker-compose

3. Modify `test/conftest.py`

Change the value of `adb_host` to the "emulator"

.. code-block:: python

    adb_host="emulator"

4. Run testcases

.. code-block:: console

    docker-compose up

Result

.. code-block:: console

    Starting purepythonadb_emulator_1 ... done
    Recreating purepythonadb_python_environment_1 ... done
    Attaching to purepythonadb_emulator_1, purepythonadb_python_environment_1
    emulator_1            | + echo n
    emulator_1            | + /home/user/android-sdk-linux/tools/bin/avdmanager create avd -k system-images;android-25;google_apis;x86 -n Docker -b x86 -g google_apis --device 8 --force
    Parsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/emulator/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/patcher/v4/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/platform-tools/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/platforms/android-25/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/system-images/android-25/google_apis/x86/package.xmlParsing /home/user/android-sdk-linux/tools/package.xml+ echo hw.keyboard = true
    emulator_1            | + adb start-server
    emulator_1            | * daemon not running; starting now at tcp:5037
    python_environment_1  | ============================= test session starts ==============================
    python_environment_1  | platform linux -- Python 3.6.1, pytest-3.6.3, py-1.5.4, pluggy-0.6.0
    python_environment_1  | rootdir: /code, inifile:
    python_environment_1  | collected 27 items
    python_environment_1  |
    emulator_1            | * daemon started successfully
    emulator_1            | + exec /usr/bin/supervisord
    emulator_1            | /usr/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/supervisor/options.py:298: UserWarning: Supervisord is running as root and it is searching for its configuration file in default locations (including its current working directory); you probably want to specify a "-c" argument specifying an absolute path to a configuration file for improved security.
    emulator_1            |   'Supervisord is running as root and it is searching '
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,560 CRIT Supervisor running as root (no user in config file)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,560 INFO Included extra file "/etc/supervisor/conf.d/supervisord.conf" during parsing
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,570 INFO RPC interface 'supervisor' initialized
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,570 CRIT Server 'unix_http_server' running without any HTTP authentication checking
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:47,570 INFO supervisord started with pid 1
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,573 INFO spawned: 'socat-5554' with pid 74
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,574 INFO spawned: 'socat-5555' with pid 75
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,576 INFO spawned: 'socat-5037' with pid 76
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,578 INFO spawned: 'novnc' with pid 77
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,579 INFO spawned: 'socat-9008' with pid 78
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:48,582 INFO spawned: 'emulator' with pid 80
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,607 INFO success: socat-5554 entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,607 INFO success: socat-5555 entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,607 INFO success: socat-5037 entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,607 INFO success: novnc entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,608 INFO success: socat-9008 entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    emulator_1            | 2018-07-07 17:19:49,608 INFO success: emulator entered RUNNING state, process has stayed up for > than 1 seconds (startsecs)
    python_environment_1  | test/test_device.py ..............                                       [ 51%]
    python_environment_1  | test/test_host.py ..                                                     [ 59%]
    python_environment_1  | test/test_host_serial.py ........                                        [ 88%]
    python_environment_1  | test/test_plugins.py ...                                                 [100%]
    python_environment_1  |
    python_environment_1  | ------------------ generated xml file: /code/test_result.xml -------------------
    python_environment_1  | ========================= 27 passed in 119.15 seconds ==========================
    purepythonadb_python_environment_1 exited with code 0
    Aborting on container exit...
    Stopping purepythonadb_emulator_1 ... done

More Information
=================

A pure Node.js client for the Android Debug Bridge
---------------------------------------------------

adbkit_

ADB documents
--------------

- protocol_
- services_
- sync_

.. _adbkit: https://github.com/openstf/stf
.. _protocol: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/core/+/master/adb/protocol.txt
.. _services: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/core/+/master/adb/SERVICES.TXT
.. _sync: https://android.googlesource.com/platform/system/core/+/master/adb/SYNC.TXT
